Added new kb article customize-header-rad-scheduler-net-maui (#858)
telerik/maui-docs: knowledge-base/customize-header-rad-scheduler-net-maui.md

---
title: Customizing Header Settings in RadScheduler for .NET MAUI
description: Learn how to modify the RadScheduler header, including removing navigation buttons and aligning the month text.
type: how-to
page_title: How to Customize Header in Telerik RadScheduler for .NET MAUI
slug: customize-header-rad-scheduler-net-maui
tags: scheduler, .net maui, header, customize, alignment, navigation button, visible views button
res_type: kb
---

## Environment

| Version | Product | Author | 
| --- | --- | ---- | 
| 7.0.0 | Telerik UI for .NET MAUI Scheduler | [Dobrinka Yordanova](https://www.telerik.com/blogs/author/dobrinka-yordanova)| 

## Description

> I need to modify the RadScheduler header to better suit my application's UI. Specifically, I want to remove the drop-down navigation button located at the top left of the header, which opens the calendar, but retain the month text (e.g., Jun 2024). Additionally, I also want to center the month text within the header. How can I achieve these customizations, including hiding the "Available views" button located at the header's top right?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I need to modify the RadScheduler header to better suit my application's UI. How can I achieve the following Telerik UI for .NET MAUI Scheduler customizations?

* Remove the drop-down navigation button located at the top left of the header, which opens the calendar, but retain the month text (e.g., Jun 2024). 
* Center the month text within the header.
* Hide the "Available views" button located at the header's top right.
```

                                IsVisible="{TemplateBinding IsTodayButtonVisible}"
                                Command="{TemplateBinding TodayCommand}" />
                    </Grid>
                </telerik:RadBorder>
                <telerik:RadSchedulerContent x:Name="PART_SchedulerContent"
                                             Grid.Row="1"
                                             IsClippedToBounds="True" />
            </Grid>
        </ControlTemplate>
    </ResourceDictionary>
</ContentPage.Resources>

<telerik:RadScheduler x:Name="scheduler" 
                       HeaderLabelStyle="{StaticResource HeaderLabelStyle}">
    <telerik:RadScheduler.ViewDefinitions>
        <telerik:MonthViewDefinition Title="Month Schedule" 
                               HeaderTextFormat="{}{0:MMM yyyy}" />
    </telerik:RadScheduler.ViewDefinitions>
</telerik:RadScheduler>
```

**2.** Apply the control template to the RadScheduler component in your code-behind, specifically for iOS and Android platforms:

```csharp
public partial class MainPage : ContentPage
{
    public MainPage()
    {
        InitializeComponent();

> #if ANDROID || IOS

Reviewer: Something seems off with the indentation here for this segment.

Reviewer 2: it is okay, it displays in such way in the visual studio, this is the syntax

        this.scheduler.ControlTemplate = this.Resources["CustomSchedulerMobileTemplate"] as ControlTemplate;
#endif
    }
}
```

By following these steps, you can customize the RadScheduler header according to your requirements, including removing specific buttons and aligning text.

> 

Reviewer: Consider including ## See Also resources to:

* The Scheduler Overview page
* Scheduler Header pages
* Scheduler styling
